RHDEVDOCS-6872: Content creation for Argo CD Agent install (#101499)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-verifying-argocd-agent-installation-in-managed-or-autonomous-mode.adoc

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * argocd-agent-installation/gitops-verifying-argocd-agent-installation-in-managed-or-autonomous-mode.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-verifying-argocd-agent-installation-in-managed-or-autonomous-mode_{context}"]
= Verifying the Argo CD Agent installation in Managed Mode or Autonomous Mode

> Use this procedure to verify that the Argo CD Agent is correctly installed and connected to the Principal cluster in managed or autonomous mode.

Reviewer: missing abstract tag

Author: Fixed.

.Procedure

> . Create an `AppProject` in the agent namespace.

Reviewer 2: @jgwest this is for autonomous mode only, right?

Reviewer 3: (Thanks @varshab1210! I thought I had left a comment on this: the comment DID exist, but it had not been submitted)

This step, creating an AppProject, is a *setup* step for autonomous mode, not a *verification* step.

This step can thus be moved to autonomous mode install section, as in the gist: https://gist.github.com/jgwest/da80a952732ca026e21c156cca6ab5fe (step 7)

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: AppProject
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: <AGENT_NAMESPACE>
spec:
  clusterResourceWhitelist:
  - group: '*'
    kind: '*'
  destinations:
  - name: '*'
    namespace: '*'
    server: '*'
  sourceRepos:
  - '*'
----

> +

Reviewer 3: This step, creating an AppProject, is a *setup* step for autonomous mode, not a *verification* step.

This step should be move to autonomous mode install section, as in the gist: https://gist.github.com/jgwest/da80a952732ca026e21c156cca6ab5fe

> For more information, see the Additional Resources section, which includes the upstream documentation link on creating AppProjects in Agents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the _Additional Resources_ section, which includes the upstream documentation link on creating `AppProject` resources in Agents.
```

. Verify that the Agent deployment is created by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pod -n "<AGENT_NAMESPACE>" --context "<AGENT_CONTEXT>"
----
+
As a result, the following output is displayed:
+
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                           READY   STATUS
argocd-agent-agent-6489fc5dd-48whw             1/1     Running
----

> . To confirm that the Agent component is successfully connected with Principal, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To verify that the Agent component is successfully connected with Principal, run the following command:
```

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc logs "<AGENT_POD>" -n "<AGENT_NAMESPACE>" --context "<AGENT_CONTEXT>"
----
+
As a result, the following messages are displayed in the pod logs.
+
[source,terminal]
----
level=info msg="Authentication successful"
level=info msg="Connected to argocd-agent-0.0.1-alpha"
level=info msg="Starting event writer"
level=info msg="Starting to send events to event stream"
level=info msg="Starting to receive events from event stream"
----

. (Optional) Verify that the Agent metrics service is available.
The Agent starts a metrics server exposed through a ClusterIP service, for example:
`openshift-gitops-agent-agent-metrics`. You can create a route to expose this service externally.

. Verify the connection from the Principal cluster.

.. On the Principal cluster, check the logs of the Principal pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc logs "<PRINCIPAL_POD>" --tail 10 -n "<PRINCIPAL_NAMESPACE>" --context "<PRINCIPAL_CONTEXT>"

Reviewer: lowercase

----
+
Confirm that the following log messages are displayed:
+
[source,terminal]
----
level=info msg="An agent connected to the subscription stream"
level=info msg="Updated connection status to 'Successful' in Cluster: '<AGENT_NAME>' mapped with Agent: '<AGENT_NAME>'"
level=info msg="Starting event writer"
----

> .. You can also check the Principal metrics endpoint, a successful connection increases the metric `agent_connected_with_principal` by number of agents connected to the hub.

Reviewer: This sounds like another optional step by the wording?

```suggestion
.. (Optional) Verify the Principal metrics endpoint, a successful connection increases the metric `agent_connected_with_principal` by number of agents connected to the hub.
```

.. To list connected Agents, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ argocd-agentctl agent list --principal-namespace "<PRINCIPAL_NAMESPACE>" --principal-context "<PRINCIPAL_CONTEXT>"

Reviewer: lowercase

----

.Verification

> Verify that all Agent pods are in the `Running` state and that secrets and Helm deployments have been successfully created before proceeding with synchronization.

Reviewer: the previous steps seem like verification as well, i would put all of those here. Plus this needs to be in a bullet point as well, not to fail vale tests

Author: Fixed.
